1. Using “man command” can you provide me the explanations of the output for the 
following commands:
ls -b, ls -c, ls -d, …., ls -z

Ans:
a.) ls -b
ls -b displays non-printable characters in filenames using C-style escape sequences. This is useful when dealing with files containing spaces, tabs, or other special characters in their names.

b.) ls -c
ls -c sorts files by their last modification time (ctime) in descending order (newest first). When used with -l, it shows the time of last status change.

c.) ls -d
ls -d lists directories themselves rather than their contents. This prevents ls from expanding directory contents and shows only the directory entries.

d.) ls -e
ls -e displays extended attribute information along with the long listing format (not available on all systems).

e.) ls -f
ls -f does not sort directory contents, showing them in the order they appear in the directory. This also implies -a (showing all files including hidden ones).

f.) ls -g
ls -g displays long format but omits the owner information, showing only group ownership.

g.) ls -h
ls -h shows file sizes in human-readable format (KB, MB, GB) instead of bytes.

i.) ls -i
ls -i displays the inode number of each file, which is the unique identifier for the file in the filesystem.

j.) ls -k
ls -k displays file sizes in kilobytes (1024 bytes) instead of the default block size.

k.) ls -l
ls -l uses long listing format showing detailed file information including permissions, owner, size, and modification time.

l.) ls -m
ls -m displays files separated by commas, filling the entire width of the terminal.

m.) ls -n
ls -n displays user and group IDs numerically instead of resolving to names.

n.) ls -o
ls -o displays long format but omits group information.

o.) ls -p
ls -p appends a slash (/) to directory names, making them easily distinguishable from files.

p.) ls -q
ls -q displays non-printable characters in filenames as question marks (?).

q.) ls -r
ls -r reverses the order of sort to show files in descending order.

r.) ls -s
ls -s displays the allocated size of each file in blocks.

s.) ls -t
ls -t sorts files by modification time, newest first.

t.) ls -u
ls -u sorts by and shows the last access time instead of modification time.

u.) ls -v
ls -v performs natural sort of version numbers within text.

v.) ls -w
ls -w specifies the screen width for output formatting (deprecated in many systems).

w.) ls -x
ls -x lists files in lines going across the screen rather than down.

x.) ls -y
ls -y is not a standard option in most ls implementations.

y.) ls -z
ls -z displays security context information for SELinux-enabled systems.

2. Can you explore the following commands on your own:
• whoami, pwd
• cd
• cd /
• cd <space> ..
• cd <space> <path>
(B)
tree -l -L 1
tree -l -L 2
tree -l -L 3
tree /var/log/apt -La 1

Ans:

a.) whoami
Explanation:
The whoami command displays the current logged-in username. It shows which user account is currently active in the terminal session.

b.) pwd
Explanation:
The pwd (Print Working Directory) command displays the full path of the current directory you're working in.

c.) cd
Explanation:
The cd (Change Directory) command without any arguments takes you to your home directory.

d.) cd /
Explanation:
The cd / command changes the current directory to the root directory, which is the top-level directory of the entire filesystem.

e.) cd <space> ..
Explanation:
The cd .. command moves up one level to the parent directory of your current location.

f.) cd <space> <path>
Explanation:
The cd <path> command changes to the specified directory path. The path can be absolute (starting from /) or relative (from current directory).

g.) tree -l -L 1
Explanation:
The tree -l -L 1 command displays the directory structure showing only the first level of contents, following symbolic links.

h.) tree -l -L 2
Explanation:
The tree -l -L 2 command shows the directory structure up to 2 levels deep, following symbolic links.

i.) tree -l -L 3
Explanation:
The tree -l -L 3 command displays the directory structure up to 3 levels deep, following symbolic links.

j.) tree /var/log/apt -La 1
Explanation:
The tree /var/log/apt -La 1 command shows the directory structure of /var/log/apt with all files (including hidden ones) at level 1 only.

